Being part of a startup, getting to build something from scratch has been something I wanted to do for a long time. The opportunity at PricePoint came along at the right time. After my time at Yodle I felt confident in not only my technical ability, but also in my leadership and managerial experience. Within the constraints of a bootstrap startup, I was able to build a team and technology that handles millions of dollars of corporate relocations for some of the biggest companies in the world. With my time there coming to an end, I am grateful for the experience and the chance to grow as an organizational and product leader. I know that wherever I land next, I will be putting all of those lessons to good use. In my career I have often been the person you task with solving a problem that other people can’t. I really wanted an opportunity to prove that I could build an effective product and technology team from scratch. I joined PricePoint as employee number 4. PricePoint was a bootstrap startup in a niche industry (corporate relocation), the CEO Ben Heller was a personal friend and the opportunity to do something I had always wanted to do was too good to pass up. To get this out of the way and to answer the question why are you looking, PricePoint was just sold to another small company in the relocation space and we are parting/parted ways on the 15th of January. I am still very proud of my time at PricePoint, I did what I set out to do (build a great product team) within the constraints that I had. I hired every engineer, designed the interview process, made compensation decisions, etc. By targeting rising seniors in second tier markets I maximized the limited resources available to build and train engineers who could grow with the company. In my time at PricePoint I only had a single engineer leave, and that was after 3 years. Technically, PricePoint really solidified what I learned at Yodle. When I started, PricePoint was hosted on a single AWS ec2 instance backed by an RDS database. When I left, PricePoint had multiple environments, CI/CD pipelines, containerized services, and virtualization using Kubernetes, with infrastructure and application performance monitoring. PricePoint gave me a ton of experience doing things that had previously been abstract / worked on by platform teams, e.g. building a nodejs / typescript toolchain, developing DR plans from scratch, selecting CI/CD technologies. As a leader I learned a level of resilience. There is no substitute for being the person ultimately responsible for decisions, for having to be the one to make it work. As a member of the executive team I typically led several sessions on strategy and product development at our yearly retreat. Working to define internal priorities and improve processes. I was responsible for the technical portion of two due diligence exercises, one of which resulted in the acquisition of PricePoint by Cend. I set and managed the product and development budget. Looking back, I think that my time at PricePoint taught me the most about how to build products customers find value in. As the only person at the company with experience at a SaaS / product company I evangelized for and built modern product practices into the way that PricePoint was run. The 5th hire at PricePoint was a very smart international pricing expert. As the development team grew we transitioned her to a product management role and I managed and trained her. I instituted OKRs, then KPIs (when it was clear that PricePoint’s management practices made OKRs not cost effective) with a specific focus on customer outcomes, e.g. are our customers able to get the prices they need out of our system? To decrease risk and improve development velocity I advocated for and implemented modern product discovery practices and dual-track agile. PricePoint has a product that is used by some of the biggest companies in the automotive, technology, and pharmaceutical industries. Unfortunately, PricePoint could never make the transition from early adopter to early majority. As the product leader it was my responsibility to understand when that effort became futile and to advocate for a new direction which resulted in the sale of PricePoint to Cend.