The reason I go to work is to build something that makes people’s lives easier. My biggest professional disappointments have been seeing things I build go unused. We’ve all been there, sitting in the meeting where you find out that after months of work that feature just fell flat. No one wants to use it. The unfortunate reality is, that happens all too often.

The hardest thing to do in software is to build the right thing. The most common reason that startups fail is because they can’t meet their customers' needs. From stakeholder development to customer driven roadmaps it is easy to get it wrong. The hard truth is, without strong product management your chances of success drop dramatically.

The biggest investment for a software company is in ... the software it builds. The biggest risk for a software company is building something your customers don’t use. The answer to this is modern product management techniques. Strong product practices like qualitative and quantitative discovery, rapid prototyping, and dual track agile significantly reduce the risk of investment in software development.

Done properly, the goal is to build a product company. To embed product management practices in all go to market and customer facing departments. To understand your customer’s needs,  set business objectives based on those needs, and empower product teams to meet those needs. In other words, let your product managers, user experience designers, and engineers do what they do best, solve customer’s problems.
